docs/part_0_create_saas_app.md, before:

Part 0: Demystifying SaaS app creation
==============================

**Goal:** Understand the steps needed to create, version, and deploy a SaaS app, including tracking the libraries it depends on so that your production and development environments are as similar as possible.

**What you will do:** Create a simple "hello world" app using the Sinatra framework, version it properly, and deploy it to Heroku.

Creating and versioning a simple SaaS app
-----------------------------------------

SaaS apps are developed on your computer but *deployed to production* on a server that others can access.  We try to minimize the differences between the development and production *environments*, to avoid difficult-to-diagnose problems in which something works one way on your development computer but a different way (or not at all) when that code is deployed to production.

We have two mechanisms for keeping the development and production environments consistent.  The first is *version control*, such as Git, for the app's code.  But since almost all apps also rely on *libraries* written by others, such as *gems* in the case of Ruby, we need a way to keep track of which versions of which libraries our app has been tested with, so that the same ones are used in development and production.

Happily, Ruby has a wonderful system for managing gem dependencies: a gem called **Bundler** looks for a file called `Gemfile` in the *app root directory* of each project.  The `Gemfile` contains a list of gems and versions your app depends on. Bundler verifies that those gems, and any others that they in turn depend on, are properly installed on your system and accessible to the app.

Let's start with the following steps:

* Create a new empty directory to hold your new app, and use `git init` in that directory to start versioning it with Git.

* In that directory, create a new file called `Gemfile` (the capitalization is important) with the following contents.  This file will be a permanent part of your app and will travel with your app anywhere it goes:

```rb
source 'https://rubygems.org'
ruby '2.6.6'

gem 'sinatra', '>= 2.0.1'
```

The first line says that the preferred place to download any necessary gems is https://rubygems.org, which is where the Ruby community registers "production ready" gems.

The second line specifies which version of the Ruby language interpreter is required.  If we omitted this line, Bundler wouldn't try to verify which version of Ruby is available; there are subtle differences between the versions, and not all gems work with all versions, so it's best to specify this.

The last line says we need version 2.0.1 or later of the `sinatra` gem. In some cases we don't need to specify which version of a gem we want; in this case we do specify it because we rely on some features that are absent from earlier versions of Sinatra.

Run Bundler
-----------

Run the command `bundle`, which examines your `Gemfile` to make sure the correct gems (and, where specified, the correct versions) are available, and tries to install them otherwise.  This will create a new file `Gemfile.lock`, *which you should place under version control.*

To place under version control, use these commands:

```sh
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Set up the Gemfile"
```

The first command stages all changed files for committing. The second command commits the staged files with the comment in the quotes. You can repeat these commands to commit future changes. Remember that these are LOCAL commits -- if you want these changes on GitHub, you'll need to do a git push command, which we will show later.

#### Self Check Questions (click triangle to check your answer)

<details>
  <summary>What's the difference between the purpose and contents of <code>Gemfile</code> and <code>Gemfile.lock</code>?  Which file is needed to completely reproduce the development environment's gems in the production environment?</summary>
  <p><blockquote><code>Gemfile</code> specifies the gems you need and in some cases the constraints on which version(s) are acceptable. <code>Gemfile.lock</code> records the *actual* versions found, not only of the gems you specified explicitly but also any other gems on which they depend, so it is the file used by the production environment to reproduce the gems available in the development environment.</blockquote></p>
</details>
<br />
<details>
  <summary>After running <code>bundle</code>, why are there gems listed in <code>Gemfile.lock</code>
that were not listed in <code>Gemfile</code>?</summary>
  <p><blockquote>Bundler looked up the information for each Gem you requested (in this case, only <code>sinatra</code>) and realized that it depends on other gems, which in turn depend on still others, so it recursively installed all those dependencies.  For example, the <code>rack</code> appserver is a gem, and while you didn't explicitly request it, <code>sinatra</code> depends on it.  This is an example of the power of automation: rather than requiring you (the app developer) to understand every Gem dependency, Bundler automates that process and lets you focus only on your app's top-level dependencies.</blockquote></p>
</details>


Create a simple SaaS app with Sinatra
-------------------------------------

As Chapter 2 of ESaaS explains, SaaS apps require a web server to receive HTTP requests from the outside world, and an application server that "connects" your app's logic to the web server.  For development, we will use `webrick`, a very simple Ruby-based web server that would be inappropriate for production but is fine for development.  In both development and production, we will use the `rack` Ruby-based application server, which supports Ruby apps written in various frameworks including Sinatra and Rails.

As Chapter 2 of *ESaaS* explains, a SaaS app essentially recognizes and responds to HTTP requests corresponding to the application's *routes* (recall that a route consists of an HTTP method such as `GET` or `POST` plus a URI).  Sinatra provides an extremely lightweight shorthand for matching a route with the app code to be executed when a request using that route arrives from the Web server.

Create a file in your project called `app.rb` containing the following:

```rb
require 'sinatra'

class MyApp < Sinatra::Base
  get '/' do
    "<!DOCTYPE html><html><head></head><body><h1>Hello World</h1></body></html>"
  end
end
```

The `get` method is provided by the `Sinatra::Base` class, from which our `MyApp` class inherits; `Sinatra::Base` is available because we load the Sinatra library on line 1.

#### Self Check Question

<details>
  <summary>What *two* steps did we take earlier to guarantee that the Sinatra library is available to load in line 1?</summary>
  <p><blockquote> We specified <code>gem 'sinatra'</code> in the <code>Gemfile</code> *and* successfully ran <code>bundle</code> to confirm that the gem is installed and "lock" the correct version of it in <code>Gemfile.lock</code>.</blockquote></p>
</details>

<br />

As you see from the above simple example, Sinatra lets you write functions that match an incoming HTTP route, in this case `GET '/'` (the root URL), a very simple HTML document containing the string `Hello World` will be returned to the presentation tier as the result of the request.

To run our app, we have to start the application server and presentation tier (web) server.  The `rack` application server is controlled by a file `config.ru`, which you must now create and add to version control, containing the following:

```rb
require './app'
run MyApp
```

The first line tells Rack that our app lives in the file `app.rb`, which you created above to hold your app's code.  We have to explicitly state that our `app` file is located in the current directory (.) because `require` normally looks only in standard system directories to find gems.

You're now ready to test-drive our simple app with a command line:
| Local computer | Codio |
|-----|------|
| `$ bundle exec rackup` | `$ bundle exec rackup --host 0.0.0.0` |

This command starts the Rack appserver and the WEBrick webserver.  Prefixing it with `bundle exec` ensures that you are running with the gems specified in `Gemfile.lock`.  Rack will look for `config.ru` and attempt to start our app based on the information there.

To see the webapp:

| Local computer | Codio |
|-----|------|
| Visit `localhost:9292` in your browser to see the webapp. It will open in a new tab in the IDE if you click on it, but you should open up a fresh browser tab and paste in that URL. <br><br> Point a new Web browser tab at the running app's URL and verify that you can see "Hello World". | Click the "Box URL" button on your top tool bar that has been pre-configured to point at port 9292: <br> <br> ![BoxURL](https://global.codio.com/content/BoxURL.png) <br> <br> The app should open in a new tab. Verify that you can see "Hello World". |

#### Self Check Question

<details>
  <summary>What happens if you try to visit a non-root URL such as <code>https://workspace-username.c9.io/hello</code> and why? (your URL root will vary)</summary>
  <p><blockquote> You'll get a humorous error message from the Sinatra framework, since you don't have a route matching <code>get '/hello'</code> in your app.  Since Sinatra is a SaaS framework, the error message is packaged up in a Web page and delivered to your browser.</blockquote></p>
</details>

<br />

You should now have the following files under version control: `Gemfile`, `Gemfile.lock`, `app.rb`, `config.ru`.  This is a minimal SaaS app: the app file itself, the list of explicitly required gems, the list of actual gems installed including the dependencies implied by the required gems, and a configuration file telling the appserver how to start the app.

Modify the app
--------------

Modify `app.rb` so that instead of "Hello World" it prints "Goodbye World". Save your changes to `app.rb` and try refreshing your browser tab where the app is running.

No changes? Confused?

Now go back to the shell window where you ran `rackup` and press Ctrl-C to stop Rack.  Then type `bundle exec rackup` for local developemt or `$bundle exec rackup --host 0.0.0.0` for Codio development again, and once it is running, go back to your browser tab with your app and refresh the page.  This time it should work.

What this shows you is that if you modify your app while it's running, you have to restart Rack in order for it to "see" those changes.  Since restarting it manually is tedious, we'll use the `rerun` gem, which restarts Rack automatically when it sees changes to files in the app's directory. (Rails does this for you by default during development, as we'll see, but Sinatra doesn't.)

You're probably already thinking: "Aha! If our app depends on this additional gem, we should add it to the Gemfile and run bundle to make sure it's really present." Good thinking. But it may also occur to you that this particular gem wouldn't be necessary in a production environment: we only need it as a tool while developing. Fortunately, there's a way to tell Bundler that some gems are only necessary in certain environments. Add the following to the Gemfile (it doesn't matter where):

```rb
group :development do
  gem 'rerun'
end
```

Now run `bundle install` to have it download the `rerun` gem and any dependencies, if they aren't already in place.

Any gem specifications inside the `group :development` block will only be examined if bundle is run in the development environment.  (The other environments you can specify are :test and :production, and you can define new environments yourself.)  Gem specifications outside of any group block are assumed to apply in all environments.

Say the following in the terminal window to start your app and verify the app is running:
| Local computer | Codio |
|-----|------|
| `$ bundle exec rerun -- rackup ` | `$ bundle exec rerun -- rackup -p 9292 -o 0.0.0.0` |

There are more details on rerun's usage available in the gem's [GitHub
README](https://github.com/alexch/rerun#usage). Gems are usually on
GitHub and their READMEs are usually full of helpful instructions about how to use them.

In this case we are prefixing with `bundle exec` again in order to ensure we are using the gems in the Gemfile.lock, and the `--` symbol is there to assert that the command we want rerun to operate with is `rackup -p $PORT -o $IP`.  We could achieve the same effect with `bundle exec rerun "rackup -p 9292 -o 0.0.0.0"`.  They are equivalent.   More importantly, any detected changes will now cause the server to restart automatically, similar to the use of `guard` to auto re-run specs when files change.

Modify `app.rb` to print a different message, and verify that the change is detected by refreshing your browser tab with the running app.  Also before we move on you should commit your latest changes to git.

Deploy to Heroku
----------------
Heroku is a cloud platform-as-a-service (PaaS) where we can deploy our Sinatra (and later Rails) applications. If you don't have an account yet, go sign up at http://www.heroku.com. You'll need your login and password for the next step.

Install Heroku CLI following [instructions](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli).

Log in to your Heroku account by typing the command: `heroku login -i` in the terminal. This will connect you to your Heroku account.

While in the root directory of your project (not your whole workspace), type `heroku create` to create a new project in Heroku. This will tell the Heroku service to prepare for some incoming code, and locally it will add a remote git repository for you called `heroku`.

Next, make sure you stage and commit all changes locally as instructed above (i.e. `git add`, `git commit`, etc).

Earlier we saw that to run the app locally you run `rackup` to start the Rack appserver, and Rack looks in `config.ru` to determine how to start your Sinatra app.  How do you tell a production environment how to start an appserver or other processes necessary to receive requests and start your app?  In the case of Heroku, this is done with a special file named `Procfile`,  which specifies one or more types of Heroku processes your app will use, and how to start each one. The most basic Heroku process type is called a Dyno, or "web worker".  One Dyno can serve one user request at a time.  Since we're on Heroku's free tier, we can only have one Dyno. Let's create a file named `Procfile`, and only this as the name (i.e. Procfile.txt is not valid). Write the following line in your `Procfile`:

```
web: bundle exec rackup config.ru -p $PORT
```

This tells Heroku to start a single web worker (Dyno) using essentially the same command line you used to start Rack locally. Note that in some cases, a `Procfile` is not necessary since Heroku can infer from your files how to start the app. However, it's always better to be explicit.

Your local repo is now ready to deploy to Heroku:

```
$ git push heroku master
```

(`master` refers to which branch of the remote Heroku repo we are pushing to.  We'll learn about branches later in the course, but for now, suffice it to say that you can only deploy to the `master` branch on Heroku.) This push will create a running instance of your app at some URL ending with `herokuapp.com`. Enter that URL in a new browser tab to see your app running live. Congratulations, you did it--your app is live!

Summary
-------

* You started a new application project by creating a `Gemfile` specifying which gems you need and running `bundle` to verify that they're available and create the `Gemfile.lock` file that records the versions of gems actually in use.

* You created a Sinatra app in the file `app.rb`, pointed Rack at this file in `config.ru`, and used `rackup` to start the appserver and the WEBrick web server.

* You learned that changing the app's code doesn't automatically cause Rack to reload the app. To save the work of restarting the app manually every time you make a change, you used the `rerun` gem, adding it to the Gemfile in a way that specifies you won't need it in production, only during development.

* You versioned the important files containing not only your app's code but the necessary info to reproduce all the libraries it relies on and the file that starts up the app.

* You deployed this simple app to Heroku.

-----

Next: [Part 1 - Hangperson](part_1_hangperson.md)

Commit message:

change instruction to google app engine.

docs/part_0_create_saas_app.md, after:

Part 0: Demystifying SaaS app creation
==============================

**Goal:** Understand the steps needed to create, version, and deploy a SaaS app, including tracking the libraries it depends on so that your production and development environments are as similar as possible.

**What you will do:** Create a simple "hello world" app using the Sinatra framework, version it properly, and deploy it to Heroku.

Creating and versioning a simple SaaS app
-----------------------------------------

SaaS apps are developed on your computer but *deployed to production* on a server that others can access.  We try to minimize the differences between the development and production *environments*, to avoid difficult-to-diagnose problems in which something works one way on your development computer but a different way (or not at all) when that code is deployed to production.

We have two mechanisms for keeping the development and production environments consistent.  The first is *version control*, such as Git, for the app's code.  But since almost all apps also rely on *libraries* written by others, such as *gems* in the case of Ruby, we need a way to keep track of which versions of which libraries our app has been tested with, so that the same ones are used in development and production.

Happily, Ruby has a wonderful system for managing gem dependencies: a gem called **Bundler** looks for a file called `Gemfile` in the *app root directory* of each project.  The `Gemfile` contains a list of gems and versions your app depends on. Bundler verifies that those gems, and any others that they in turn depend on, are properly installed on your system and accessible to the app.

Let's start with the following steps:

* Create a new empty directory to hold your new app, and use `git init` in that directory to start versioning it with Git.

* In that directory, create a new file called `Gemfile` (the capitalization is important) with the following contents.  This file will be a permanent part of your app and will travel with your app anywhere it goes:

```rb
source 'https://rubygems.org'
ruby '2.6.6'

gem 'sinatra', '>= 2.0.1'
```

The first line says that the preferred place to download any necessary gems is https://rubygems.org, which is where the Ruby community registers "production ready" gems.

The second line specifies which version of the Ruby language interpreter is required.  If we omitted this line, Bundler wouldn't try to verify which version of Ruby is available; there are subtle differences between the versions, and not all gems work with all versions, so it's best to specify this.

The last line says we need version 2.0.1 or later of the `sinatra` gem. In some cases we don't need to specify which version of a gem we want; in this case we do specify it because we rely on some features that are absent from earlier versions of Sinatra.

Run Bundler
-----------

Run the command `bundle`, which examines your `Gemfile` to make sure the correct gems (and, where specified, the correct versions) are available, and tries to install them otherwise.  This will create a new file `Gemfile.lock`, *which you should place under version control.*

To place under version control, use these commands:

```sh
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Set up the Gemfile"
```

The first command stages all changed files for committing. The second command commits the staged files with the comment in the quotes. You can repeat these commands to commit future changes. Remember that these are LOCAL commits -- if you want these changes on GitHub, you'll need to do a git push command, which we will show later.

#### Self Check Questions (click triangle to check your answer)

<details>
  <summary>What's the difference between the purpose and contents of <code>Gemfile</code> and <code>Gemfile.lock</code>?  Which file is needed to completely reproduce the development environment's gems in the production environment?</summary>
  <p><blockquote><code>Gemfile</code> specifies the gems you need and in some cases the constraints on which version(s) are acceptable. <code>Gemfile.lock</code> records the *actual* versions found, not only of the gems you specified explicitly but also any other gems on which they depend, so it is the file used by the production environment to reproduce the gems available in the development environment.</blockquote></p>
</details>
<br />
<details>
  <summary>After running <code>bundle</code>, why are there gems listed in <code>Gemfile.lock</code>
that were not listed in <code>Gemfile</code>?</summary>
  <p><blockquote>Bundler looked up the information for each Gem you requested (in this case, only <code>sinatra</code>) and realized that it depends on other gems, which in turn depend on still others, so it recursively installed all those dependencies.  For example, the <code>rack</code> appserver is a gem, and while you didn't explicitly request it, <code>sinatra</code> depends on it.  This is an example of the power of automation: rather than requiring you (the app developer) to understand every Gem dependency, Bundler automates that process and lets you focus only on your app's top-level dependencies.</blockquote></p>
</details>


Create a simple SaaS app with Sinatra
-------------------------------------

As Chapter 2 of ESaaS explains, SaaS apps require a web server to receive HTTP requests from the outside world, and an application server that "connects" your app's logic to the web server.  For development, we will use `webrick`, a very simple Ruby-based web server that would be inappropriate for production but is fine for development.  In both development and production, we will use the `rack` Ruby-based application server, which supports Ruby apps written in various frameworks including Sinatra and Rails.

As Chapter 2 of *ESaaS* explains, a SaaS app essentially recognizes and responds to HTTP requests corresponding to the application's *routes* (recall that a route consists of an HTTP method such as `GET` or `POST` plus a URI).  Sinatra provides an extremely lightweight shorthand for matching a route with the app code to be executed when a request using that route arrives from the Web server.

Create a file in your project called `app.rb` containing the following:

```rb
require 'sinatra'

class MyApp < Sinatra::Base
  get '/' do
    "<!DOCTYPE html><html><head></head><body><h1>Hello World</h1></body></html>"
  end
end
```

The `get` method is provided by the `Sinatra::Base` class, from which our `MyApp` class inherits; `Sinatra::Base` is available because we load the Sinatra library on line 1.

#### Self Check Question

<details>
  <summary>What *two* steps did we take earlier to guarantee that the Sinatra library is available to load in line 1?</summary>
  <p><blockquote> We specified <code>gem 'sinatra'</code> in the <code>Gemfile</code> *and* successfully ran <code>bundle</code> to confirm that the gem is installed and "lock" the correct version of it in <code>Gemfile.lock</code>.</blockquote></p>
</details>

<br />

As you see from the above simple example, Sinatra lets you write functions that match an incoming HTTP route, in this case `GET '/'` (the root URL), a very simple HTML document containing the string `Hello World` will be returned to the presentation tier as the result of the request.

To run our app, we have to start the application server and presentation tier (web) server.  The `rack` application server is controlled by a file `config.ru`, which you must now create and add to version control, containing the following:

```rb
require './app'
run MyApp
```

The first line tells Rack that our app lives in the file `app.rb`, which you created above to hold your app's code.  We have to explicitly state that our `app` file is located in the current directory (.) because `require` normally looks only in standard system directories to find gems.

You're now ready to test-drive our simple app with a command line:
| Local computer | Codio |
|-----|------|
| `$ bundle exec rackup` | `$ bundle exec rackup --host 0.0.0.0` |

This command starts the Rack appserver and the WEBrick webserver.  Prefixing it with `bundle exec` ensures that you are running with the gems specified in `Gemfile.lock`.  Rack will look for `config.ru` and attempt to start our app based on the information there.

To see the webapp:

| Local computer | Codio |
|-----|------|
| Visit `localhost:9292` in your browser to see the webapp. It will open in a new tab in the IDE if you click on it, but you should open up a fresh browser tab and paste in that URL. <br><br> Point a new Web browser tab at the running app's URL and verify that you can see "Hello World". | Click the "Box URL" button on your top tool bar that has been pre-configured to point at port 9292: <br> <br> ![BoxURL](https://global.codio.com/content/BoxURL.png) <br> <br> The app should open in a new tab. Verify that you can see "Hello World". |

#### Self Check Question

<details>
  <summary>What happens if you try to visit a non-root URL such as <code>https://workspace-username.c9.io/hello</code> and why? (your URL root will vary)</summary>
  <p><blockquote> You'll get a humorous error message from the Sinatra framework, since you don't have a route matching <code>get '/hello'</code> in your app.  Since Sinatra is a SaaS framework, the error message is packaged up in a Web page and delivered to your browser.</blockquote></p>
</details>

<br />

You should now have the following files under version control: `Gemfile`, `Gemfile.lock`, `app.rb`, `config.ru`.  This is a minimal SaaS app: the app file itself, the list of explicitly required gems, the list of actual gems installed including the dependencies implied by the required gems, and a configuration file telling the appserver how to start the app.

Modify the app
--------------

Modify `app.rb` so that instead of "Hello World" it prints "Goodbye World". Save your changes to `app.rb` and try refreshing your browser tab where the app is running.

No changes? Confused?

Now go back to the shell window where you ran `rackup` and press Ctrl-C to stop Rack.  Then type `bundle exec rackup` for local developemt or `$bundle exec rackup --host 0.0.0.0` for Codio development again, and once it is running, go back to your browser tab with your app and refresh the page.  This time it should work.

What this shows you is that if you modify your app while it's running, you have to restart Rack in order for it to "see" those changes.  Since restarting it manually is tedious, we'll use the `rerun` gem, which restarts Rack automatically when it sees changes to files in the app's directory. (Rails does this for you by default during development, as we'll see, but Sinatra doesn't.)

You're probably already thinking: "Aha! If our app depends on this additional gem, we should add it to the Gemfile and run bundle to make sure it's really present." Good thinking. But it may also occur to you that this particular gem wouldn't be necessary in a production environment: we only need it as a tool while developing. Fortunately, there's a way to tell Bundler that some gems are only necessary in certain environments. Add the following to the Gemfile (it doesn't matter where):

```rb
group :development do
  gem 'rerun'
end
```

Now run `bundle install` to have it download the `rerun` gem and any dependencies, if they aren't already in place.

Any gem specifications inside the `group :development` block will only be examined if bundle is run in the development environment.  (The other environments you can specify are :test and :production, and you can define new environments yourself.)  Gem specifications outside of any group block are assumed to apply in all environments.

Say the following in the terminal window to start your app and verify the app is running:
| Local computer | Codio |
|-----|------|
| `$ bundle exec rerun -- rackup ` | `$ bundle exec rerun -- rackup -p 9292 -o 0.0.0.0` |

There are more details on rerun's usage available in the gem's [GitHub
README](https://github.com/alexch/rerun#usage). Gems are usually on
GitHub and their READMEs are usually full of helpful instructions about how to use them.

In this case we are prefixing with `bundle exec` again in order to ensure we are using the gems in the Gemfile.lock, and the `--` symbol is there to assert that the command we want rerun to operate with is `rackup -p $PORT -o $IP`.  We could achieve the same effect with `bundle exec rerun "rackup -p 9292 -o 0.0.0.0"`.  They are equivalent.   More importantly, any detected changes will now cause the server to restart automatically, similar to the use of `guard` to auto re-run specs when files change.

Modify `app.rb` to print a different message, and verify that the change is detected by refreshing your browser tab with the running app.  Also before we move on you should commit your latest changes to git.

Deploy to Google App Engine
---------------------------
Google App Engine is a cloud platform-as-a-service (PaaS) where we can deploy our Sinatra (and later Rails) applications. If you don't have an account yet, go sign up at http://cloud.google.com. You'll need your login and password for the next step.

Your gcloud CLI should have already been installed. If it is not the case, you can follow the [instructions](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstart).

To initialize the google cloud sdk:
```bash
gcloud init
```

Follow the instruction to setup your gcloud sdk. You can also update the sdk to make sure you have the latest version:
```bash
gcloud components update
```

While in the root directory of your project (not your whole workspace), type 

```
gcloud projects create hw-myapp --set-as-default
```

to create a new project in Google App Engine called `hw-myapp`. Initialize your App Engine with your project and choose its region:

```
gcloud app create --project=hw-myapp
```

Next, make sure you stage and commit all changes locally as instructed above (i.e. `git add`, `git commit`, etc).

Earlier we saw that to run the app locally you run `rackup` to start the Rack appserver, and Rack looks in `config.ru` to determine how to start your Sinatra app.  How do you tell a production environment how to start an appserver or other processes necessary to receive requests and start your app?  In the case of Google App Engine, this is done with a special file named `app.yml`,  which specifies the configuration of what your app will use, and how to start your app. Open `app.yml` and make sure you have the following line:

```
entrypoint: bundle exec rackup -p $PORT
```

This is the same command to run `rackup` as we did previously with some specified port.

Your local repo is now ready to deploy to Google App Engine:

```
$ gcloud app deploy
```


Summary
-------

* You started a new application project by creating a `Gemfile` specifying which gems you need and running `bundle` to verify that they're available and create the `Gemfile.lock` file that records the versions of gems actually in use.

* You created a Sinatra app in the file `app.rb`, pointed Rack at this file in `config.ru`, and used `rackup` to start the appserver and the WEBrick web server.

* You learned that changing the app's code doesn't automatically cause Rack to reload the app. To save the work of restarting the app manually every time you make a change, you used the `rerun` gem, adding it to the Gemfile in a way that specifies you won't need it in production, only during development.

* You versioned the important files containing not only your app's code but the necessary info to reproduce all the libraries it relies on and the file that starts up the app.

* You deployed this simple app to Google App Engine.

-----

Next: [Part 1 - Hangperson](part_1_hangperson.md)
